Title: Hacking Your Own Belief System: The Importance of Being Wrong
Date: 2017-08-28 19:37
Author: max
Category: blog
Slug: 3517
Status: draft

In a previous draft, this introduction read: "Today I find myself having lost friendships over an argument in which I feel completely absolved of any wrongdoing; I think I'll see what I did wrong next year." Coming back to this one article one year later, I can tell you exactly what I did wrong. I told, but didn't show, that friend that I was open to having difficult discussions. She was afraid of having one with me, and that limited our ability to enter into a longterm partnership. The irony is though, that I peversely love difficult conversations because they often surface flaws in my belief system.

That's because when I first penned this draft in 2014 it was an expansion of the tweet "I haven't felt this way since the last time I lost all my friends". That was after I given up on the analogy of thinking of my life as the French Revolution, wherein each social upheaval is like a New Republic. I thought then I was in the 4th Republic, and since that was at least two fallings-out ago keeping track no longer seems too important. The importantance is now broadly on the lessons learned, and specifically and what I was doing wrong. In that case, I was drunk on my recent discovery of nonviolent-communication. In my stubborn over-reliance on the method, I was being mechanical and inflexible. In 2013 my adherence to radical honesty wasn't respecting boundaries. My 2012 love affair with Gödel was causing me to aggresively catch all my friends in logical contradiction. 2011 had me hamstrung by unacknowledged racism. 2010 - parroting religous propaganda. Watever philosophy du jour I might be subscribing to, history has shown me that they my credence for them is likely impermanent.

§

"Cos that's what I've been looking for, the bridge from then to now."  
\~Saul Williams

The standard way we experience time flowing is now to then. The consequence of thinking about bridges with the now to then order is that we place the current moment as the sort of pinnacle of time. However with the reverse-engineering of then to now, we can be reminded of the possible future epiphanies we might have. With those forward discoveries in mind, we can prime our ego  to be softer about how I might be erring in the current moment.

One of the unintuitive benefits of focusing heavily on my possible present wrongness is that its can be a potent persuasion technique. When I participated on the Debate Team in High School, I independently postulated something close to this Sarte-esque witticism. "In order to be convincing, you must be willing to be convinced." But of course, this is the Pyrrhic victory version of being wrong. Finding your faults to win an argument is actually trying to find your correctness.

So how do I truly orient towards viewing my mistakes clearly? I think it's important to take pleasure in the act itself rather than it's benefits. This similar to enjoying the feeling of exercising rather than doing it to look fit. I think it's important to recall how I got into this mess in the first place; to know what "Grand Narrative" I was given as Hennessey Youngman claims at 1:45 in ART THOUGHTZ: Post-structuralism. And then there was that moment of first introduction to a new philosophy, whether it be by a friend, stranger or dig through the library. The way that Youngman describes this awakening is perfect in content and delivery at 2:09 of the same video, "Fuck your father, fuck his narratives, fuck his authority, and fuck his essential structures."

In this punk moment I can view a certain ecstasy in this zooming out and seeing a new perspective, and I believe that to be the key. Every time I draw a frame around my entire belief-system and comfort, and hang that artwork on the wall of the bigger hallway I've discovered, there is a difficult letting go and admission. The admission is that I was so firm in believing that the nice scenery was the whole world, but it was actually a painting in a corridor. The trick is to find it exhilarating, rather than scary, to be in the corridor rather than the painting. I don't want to deprive myself of continuing to be influenced, even if it's very distressing. (Which it is at the time of this writing.)

If my life was shaken once per year by an uncomfortable new perspective from somewhere that I couldn't have imagined, then that's be the best Birthday present.

(I like the Red Dwarf meditation on this idea)
