Title: Asking Even Bigger Questions with Wikidata
Date: 2015-02-04 04:33
Author: max
Category: blog
Slug: 3691
Status: draft

\#altenative titles:  
wikipedia research is fun again.  
the precipice of a new questions.

\#Intro vector

Magnus was doing the same thing as me (with slightly different approaches). I hope it's not scooped, because what I really think is occuring here is some very big, very old (since beginning questions) finally being able to be answered. It's a case of simultaneous discovery.

\#Markus Krotsche 4 stages

close to data -\> query -\> visualize -\> **analyze**

what does it mean for \_\_\_. How can it answer social questions, or psychological questions.  the feeling of the questions about wikipedia are broadening and also turning to focus on the content rather than the users (or as a proxy for the users)

this wasn't possible before since it required nlp to extract semantics, but now we have semantics & those semantics are multilingual.

\#thesis is about the new landscape of question asking

questions table, envision to answer

questions that i've ansewered

-   the word for lang in lang
-   female by lang, by country (wigi)
-   most unique

what magnus has done

-   magnus stuff

\#questions that have come from online

how sitelink singletons compare against others, gerard

male-gaze, by-profession analysis, hangteng

weighting by pageviews or sitelinks, jonathan

\#future hoped queries

subclass chains-\>by language, cultural differences in ontlogy

markus -\> reference system, what do i have to believe in order to belive this

then can do - overlapping belief systesms

\#detecting unknown biases

so we can look at the date of birth or gender or even profession which are properties that occur on humans. but now we can imagine stretching this to looking the distrubtion of values of all properties that occur on human pages.

And then ask which other pages, have accompanying property distributions most like humans. And how does it vary by language?

look at the distributions of the values and sitelinks for all properties, train the biased ones, determine which properties might be termed biased.

\#starshaped queries

Queries that involve a lot of universal quantification.

\#other programmes WD4R, WIGI, WDTK, WDQ
