Title: Marriage, like Production Software
Date: 2018-07-04 00:47
Author: max
Category: blog
Slug: 4180
Status: draft

In uni, no matter the complexity of the algorithm implemented, I had heard the notion of "production" software, but I didn't quite understand what is was. What more was there to catching exceptions and writing tests - no one in the academy uses this word, so I imagined there was level of skill I was missing.

When you're dating you have a conception of what your goal is, and it varies at time, but I also wasn't sure what extra there is to a mature relationship.

After working in industry now, and being through wedding self-testing, accomplishing these two supposedly "elevated" versions of amateurish endeavours have a common tie. What is this mysterious level of quality? In fact it's nothing but a designation of the system (find new word) that's the one you're committed to being correct and functional.

You make extra touches to production software, exception-handling, tests, security hardening. In marriage you make extra efforts to handle the human-errors, forgive moments of unkindness, and harden through couple's therapy.

Life is like technology, because we make technology like life. If you want to know more, learn how to understand [non-violent communication through computer science](http://notconfusing.com/universal-empathy-machine).

 

You develop software as an amateur, never making 'production' software. Until you're thrust into the work force. What is this mysterious level of quality? In fact it's nothing but a designation of the system (find new word) that's the one you're commited to being correct and functional.

Likewise marriage is like many of the other relationships you had before this partner, except you make a promise, a commitment to this partner being the "right" dependable one that you will make efforts to keep that way.

mike made the crude observation that in both cases two your interfaces with the outside world become limited.
