Title: Jam and Gelling Invite for our new Co-Op
Date: 2013-09-21 21:54
Author: max
Slug: 334
Status: draft

What is the event?

 

What is the overall time line?

 

FAQ

Q: Price?

-   The monthly rent is $3000, and there will be between 6 and 8 people living here. Everybody will pay an equal share regardless of room size.
-   An equal share of the deposit, one month's rent, will be paid to Max under separate contract.
-   There will be a monthly food share ranging from $50 to $150 per month. More explained later.
-   Equal share of utilities per month.
-   $105 application fee for Sullivan Management, which you can split with the other newcomers by applying together.

Q: Lease Length?

-   You'll be required to be added to our lease officially, which is a year long starting October 1st 2013

Q: Chore expectations?

-   We will have a meeting when we move in together to find a group consensus.  Together we will decide what we want done and if we want to employ sticks and carrots.

Q: Food share?

-   There will be a food share, we will have to fridges: one communal, one personal. We will decide together if we want it to be vegetarian/vegan? Who will be responsible for purchasing - one person per week, or many of us each buying stuff and adding our expenses to a google doc.
-   There will be communal meals weekly, but the size and scale and details will be determined by consensus.

Q: Gender and other balances?

-   We aim to have a gender balance in the house. And make safer space for coopers.

Q: The envisioned character?

-   These are not

 

 

deposit (to Max)

-   -   

    -   rent reimbursement for first week of vacancy

    -   utilities

    -   food share

    -   application fee

-   lease length

-   food share

    -   vegetarian?

    -   jonathan’s suggestion

-   chore expectations

-   gender implications

-   the expected

    -   age?

    -   communications style

    -   open mindedness
