Title: No title [ ]
Date: 2013-11-16 00:13
Author: max
Slug: 393
Status: draft

==Details==_December 14th
_There will be an n-Course meal. "Course" is abstract on purpose see definitons._\*This will be one way in which we get to know people by their creativity and community contributions._When you sign-up you either propose a "course" of your own, or as a helper for someone else's course._Length, starting at 11am to set up. 4 hours set up, general mingling. 2 hour main n-Courses. Endless time after devolution into madness and back into the primordial ooze._Sign up with "PAL4FOX", see definitions._There an opening ceremony (volunteer idea needed)._Consent talk (an extra volunteer?) ==Definitions== ;Course :An project and idea, of a food game, roleplay, experience, art-piece, etc, to last approx 20-30mins. : A coure could be long-distance eating with the use of huge telescopic spoons. A transportation by costume / scenary to a 16th century Flemish fruit market. Tofu Jenga with special syrup rules. Simulation of food nuerosis by constant hand dirtying/cleaing limit-exeperience-meditation etc. etc. : Should be participant-focused, so its your guests have fun (or horror) playing/doing/eating your course. ;PAL4FOX : Following Mission Control's PAL system. "Pervy Adventure Liason". Must come with a friend. See FAQ. ;Sexual Expectations : You will never be required to be naked or have or view an sex from the preparation time to the end of the n-Courses. At the devolution stages, you will have an option to leave if you aren't comfortable with the transformation into an potentially sex-positive space.
